**Will Pratt**
# Alpha Testing
## Travel
* Invalid Direction/Typo Crash
  * For my project I made use of parts of the adventurelib library for my game. I mainly used the Room class and the start() function that uses a while loop to run functions from its library. In the earlier stages of my project I was used the Room class and my own while loop to try and run the game. When I did this, if the player entered a word that wasnn't north, south, east, or west or made some kind of typo then it would crash. After implementing the start() function that is apart of the adventurelib library the crash    issue that came from not inputing a valid direction or a typo would no longer occur since there are checks already in place if something like that were to happen.
* Invalid Direction Bug
  * After implementing the start() function from adventurelib a different bug occurred when traveling between rooms. If the player would enter a direction that was not one of the given exits then the game would still run but they would be given a blank response which was awkward to occur while playing. The player would still be able to travel between rooms with no issue as long as that direction is one of the given exits. To counteract that possible situation from arising I put in a check that if the direction given is not one of the available exits then the player would be given the response "You can't go that way." and have the current room the player is in print back to the screen so that the  flow doesn't seem broken or awkward and have the room description and exits readily present.  
## Rooms
* Prevent Early Event Access
  * Out of the three room types that I have within my game which are empty, combat and event, the event room type is the most complicated. One bug that I had earlier on in my  project when first trying to implement how I would have the event rooms function was that the player could activate them earlier than when it should be possible. Event rooms      function through the use of listeners waiting for specific strings, and if the word for that listener was typed in then they could activate them sooner than they should.          However, the player would need to have prior knowledge of what the words are for the listeners before having the ability to activate them. In order to correct I made my program check if the player is in the right room and if the room is an event room.
* Event Room Repeat
  * Earlier on in the project the player would have been able to cause an event room to repeat over and over again if they remembered the word that would call the listener for the event. This caused me to implement another check for the room. Not only did I make sure that the player was in the right room I needed to make sure that the room was set to be in an "event" state. After the event had been called the state of the current room the player is in would then become "empty" so that even if they might remember the word(s) for the event it would not be called again.
* "Skip" Event Room
  * One bug that is currently in my game is that when first encountering an event room, the player can skip doing the event if they know what the exit(s) are for the current room. The intent of the event rooms is that the player would make a choice and receive a consequence of some kind based on what they chose and that they would be unable to undo or do the event over again. As long as the player knows the exits for the current room then they can skip or avoid doing the event rooms even if they leave the room and go back into it.
## Combat
* Combat on Start
  * For my combat rooms I wanted the player to be thrown into a fight after the room description is printed. In an earlier stage of my project the function call for the combat was happening as soon as my code was ran which was not how I intended for it to work. To fix this, I used the room attributes to have the combat be tied to the room and only have it called when the player enters the room that it's tied to. I also had to make sure that the fight would not happen again if the player left the room and went back into it, so like the event room I had to set the current room's state to "empty" to prevent that from happening. 
* Turns
  * For my game the player, as well as the enemy, get to do one action per turn which could be to attack, defend, use a skill and only the player would have the option to use  an item. I needed to keep it continous until either the player or enemy had less than or equal to zero health points (hp) so I used a while loop for combat and each entity's turn. The process of getting combat to work the way I wanted it involved properly placed continue and break statements for both the player and the enemy. For the player, this allows them to go in and out of sub-menues like skills and items or check their skills or attack without their turn ending. Its also needed in case the player makes some typo and to prevent their turn from ending early if that happened. For the enemy, there was an issue where if they tried to use a skill on cooldown then their turn would end without them taking an action. I also had to make sure that the player did not have their turn skipped continously during combat preventing the enemy from going and vice versa.
# Ad Hoc Testing
* Developer Testing
  * When doing an Ad Hoc test myself I found a couple bugs that I overlooked to consider while developing my project. One of the bugs that I got was the blank response I mentined in the Alpha section in Travel under the "Invalid Direction Bug". If the player typed a response for one of the event rooms early then they would receive a blank response. The other bug that I overlooked was that if a player has no items and they make a typo of some kind then their turn will end, which would means that it ended without them doing their one action and essentially skipping their turn.
  * Also while doing this testing a couple game mechanic ideas or reworks came to mind. One of them was that I could make the skill cooldowns more present and visible to the user without them having to type "skill name?". I could have the cooldowns next to the name of the skill which I believe would be more convenient for the user. I would still keep the ability for teh user to type "skill name?" to give them more info regarding the skill besides it current cooldown.
* User Testing
  *  During my user testing my users did not run into any bugs or cause any kind of crashes to occur while they were playing. I managed to cover most of the potential user error that could occur while playing and only have bugs that could occur in specific scenarios regarding my game. One area that was lacking was that amount of information available to the player/user. The game may be functional but would have some improvement if the player/user had more information available to them like a stats screen and/or inventory screen which is not currently implemented in the game. One other thing that could be touched on was being able to highlight or make some text stand out to inform the user of importance or that it's something to note so that everything doesn't blend together or so the user doesn't miss or not notice information while playing.
